hello you're live with BBC News I'm Anna
Foster here in Jerusalem Israel has
intensified its military operations in
the south of the Gaza Strip the IDF says
it's hit more than 400 targets since a
week-long truce between Israel and Hamas
collapsed in the early hours of Friday
morning well this is the scene live
right now outside the al- NASA Hospital
in the southern gazen city of Khan Yun
the place that many people from the
north have fled to Palestinian Health
officials say at least 240 people have
been Ked killed since the truce came to
an end at least seven Palestinians were
killed in an Israeli attack in the early
hours of Sunday near
Rafa we're also keeping an eye on what's
Happening further north in Gaza this is
the view live from Southern Israel
looking across at the Gaza Skyline which
since that fighting resumed we've seen
once again regular plumes of black and
gray smoke on the horizon and in the
midst of all of this Israel has come
under renewed pressure from Top figures
in the Biden administ ministration in
the US the defense secretary Lloyd
Austin has said that Israel is driving
the civilian population into the arms of
the enemy and that that would be a
strategic defeat well let's start with
this report on the latest from our
Middle East correspondent Hugo
basher hunis in southern Gaza
Palestinians have been seeking safety
here now a target for Israel's
attacks
Hamas leaders are thought to be hiding
in hunis and people have been told to
evacuate further
south the bombing of the city was the
heaviest in the war so far residents
say the Israelis told us that canun was
a safe Zone which led us to flee here
now even kanun has become a war zone
where are we supposed to go our children
are strand landed on the
streets this was the scene when Aid
arrived in huis a 100 lores with
humanitarian supplies entered Gaza from
Egypt yesterday eight agencies say it's
still not
enough in Israel the agonizing weight
continues for the families of the
hostages who remain in Gaza around 140
people are still captive Hamas says no
one will be freed until there's a
permanent ceasefire in Tel Aviv last
night thousands gathered to call for the
release of the hostages yena tanov whose
50 was freed with her mother just two
days ago her husband Vitali was killed
by Hamas their son Sasha remains in
captivity I'm happy and excited to stand
here in front of you I came to say thank
you because without you I wouldn't be
here and now we have to go back and get
my Sasha the rally was interrupted by
blaring Sirens warning of the risk of
incoming Rockets prime minister
Netanyahu spoke for the first time since
the end of the
ceasefire he insisted military pressure
was the only way to free the
captives we will continue the war until
we achieve all its goals and it's
impossible to achieve those goals
without the ground
operation from Israel's main Ally the
United States a clear message he cannot
repeat in the South what he did in the
north I have repeatedly made clear to
Israel's leaders that protecting
Palestinian civilians in Gaza is both a
moral
responsibility and a strategic
imperative talks between Israel and
Hamas have collapsed the families of the
hostages hope for them to come home in
Gaza people hope their guns will once
again again fall
silent well earlier Mark regev who is
the senior adviser to the Israeli Prime
Minister Benjamin Netanyahu spoke to the
BBC about what will happen to Gaza once
the Israeli government has eliminated
Hamas so it'll be in a better bit
situation because Hamas has been
controlling Gaza for 16 years and not
only that has has that been terrible and
horrific for the people of Israel but
that has been very sad for the people of
Gaza because what have has Kamas bought
the Gaza STP what have they bought the
Palestinians in Gaza over the last 16
years poverty Bloodshed misery surely
the people of Gaza deserve better than
this extremist uh regime Terror regime
that that doesn't give a hoot about the
wellbeing of the people of Gaza and is
happy to sacrifice the very last Gaza
and as long as they can advance their
very very extreme crazy
agenda well our Middle East
correspondent Hugo Basher is with me
here in Jerusalem and that is a really
important part of this whole story isn't
it Hugo what happens if and when Israel
managed to remove Hamas from Gaza what
happens the day after that oh exactly
and uh there have been discussions about
the Palestinian Authority which controls
uh the West Bank which is the other uh
Palestinian territory taking control of
the situation in Gaza so it is obviously
you know something that has been
discussed not only in Israel but also uh
by uh Israel's Partners uh The Americans
in in particular but I think now the
main concern is about what is happening
in Gaza right now as this Israeli
offensive continues we've been talking
about the humanitarian situation uh in
Gaza and how the situation has been
desperate for the population there
because there have been widespread
shortages of basic supplies humanitarian
agid the the agid that is being
delivered right now uh the UN Aid
agencies have been saying that it is
simply not enough to meet gaza's needs
and we've seen pictures of hospitals now
uh completely overwhelmed by the high
number of casualties following these
recent attacks having to operate with
very limited resources so yes there is a
lot of discussion about what is going to
happen after and if Hamas is removed
from power in Gaza but the situation
right now is very concerning let's talk
a little bit more about that Israeli
military operation because we've seen
twice now in the last few days both
Lloyd Austin the US defense secretary
and Anthony blinkin the US Secretary of
State who was here a few days ago saying
publicly that Israel needed to act
according to International humanitarian
law if they're saying these things in
public like that does it suggest that
they think that Israel is not listening
to what they're telling them behind the
scenes yeah I think it's very very
interesting to see there has been a
change uh in the tone from the
statements coming from senior American
officials uh the US uh defense secretary
uh said uh yesterday that it was a moral
responsibility to protect the civilian
population of Gaza essentially
suggesting that uh the ferocity of of
the attacks in Gaza could drive people
to support Hamas uh essentially saying
that it could be driving your you know
the population into your enemy's arms I
think those were his words and the US
vice president also saying that uh you
know Israel has the right to defend
itself but too many Palestinians have
already been killed in Gaza so again I
think the message has been very clear
here that Israel uh needs to do more to
protect the Palestinian population the
civilian population of Gaza as he goes
ahead with this offensive and that we uh
Israel should not repeat uh in the South
what he did in the north so uh Northern
Gaza was the main focus of the initial
phase of the Israeli offensive and we're
see now that um you know most of the
attacks or many of the attacks have been
focused in southern areas of the Gaza
Strip especially hunis which is a major
uh city in in the South hundreds of
thousands of of people have been
Sheltering in hunis after fleeing uh
Northern Gaza and this is where uh
members of the Hamas leadership are
believed to be hiding so it is a very
desperate situation for the population
there